Praveenkumar Nellipersonal assistant - Graduate Student, UniversityCharlotte, NC - Email me on Indeed: indeed.com/r/Praveenkumar-Nelli/b25a42031d10ae9a• A passionate software engineer interested to work in a challenging environment which tests the skills, helps to excel andequally benefits the organization.• Offering 4 years of experience and possess in depth knowledge of Java and software development life cycle. • An enthusiastic graduate student with hands on knowledge on cutting edge technologies in Machine learning, big dataanalytics, Computer vision and Android application development. Willing to relocate: AnywhereAuthorized to work in the US for any employerWORK EXPERIENCESoftware EngineerTata Consultancy Services Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh - December 2011 to December 2015Roles & Responsibilities:• Lead a team of five developers through tight timelines in Agile development methodology and assured successful delivery of projects.• Participated in business meetings with higher management and suggested improvements in the existing applications which were then delivered as add-ons to client projects.• Acted as a champion for seven engineering practices at project level and assured the code quality.• Lead the team in delivering defect free code and won Quality cup for the year 2013-2014 at account level.Recognition:• Awarded Star Performer in account level for the year 2014-2015. • Recognized with Start of the Month and On the Spot awards.• Team lead of two teams which received with Best Team award.PROJECTSSoftware Engineer, Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., Hyderabad, India Dec 2011 to Dec 2015Automated Claims Feedback:• Being the team lead, involved in each and every phase - from requirement analysis to production delivery of the project.• The goal of the project was to build a communication portal for customers to interact with claims representatives and share the required documents.• The team won Quality cup for the defect free delivery of the project.• Technology and tools used in this project include Java, Springs, Webservices, SoapUI.Upgrading complete application to support IE11:• Lead the team of six developers to upgrade the whole application in order to support Internet Explorer 11.• Many JavaScript and Ajax functionalities like XML islands, JS functions are deprecated in IE11 and the presence of such code may result in unexpected results. 
• The main responsibilities include identifying the possible volatile functionalities and researching on the solutions to stabilize the application across all the browsers.Car Replacement Assistance:• Contributed to the critical functionalities of this project by working on both mid-tier as well as front end which are the major modules of the project.• The project deals with addition of new endorsement to the list of existing coverages which includes changes in multiplefunctionalities like exposures, payments etc• Took complete responsibility of module by attending SCRUM meeting with clients and onsite counter parts and participated actively in team discussions.• The technology used include Java, C++and JSP.Can I Claim:• An educational tool to the customers. It gives knowledge about the coverages and their applicability in differentscenarios.• An android application targeting devices of multiple dimensions. Android Studio was used as the development environment.• Lead the team of three developers and delivered it as an add-on along with the client project. Received appreciations from the clients for the idea and quality.EDUCATIONMaster of Science in Computer ScienceUniversity of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC December 2016Bachelor of Technology in Computer ScienceJNTU - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh May 2011SKILLSJava (5 years), J2EE (4 years), Spring (3 years), SQL (4 years), Jsp (3 years), HTML (5 years), Android (2 years)LINKS https://www.linkedin.com/in/praveenkumarnelliCERTIFICATIONSOracle Certified Professional, Java SE 6 ProgrammerJuly 2013 to PresentOracle Certified Professional, Java EE 5 Web Component DeveloperApril 2014 to PresentOracle Certified Expert, Java EE 6 Web Service Developer 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONTECHNICAL SKILLSLanguages/Frameworks Databases Mobile platforms ToolsJava, HTML, SQL, JSP Oracle, IBM DB2 Android application R studio, MATLAB, Octave Springs, Hibernate, CSS, developmentWebservices, SQL, R