Subramanian VenkatachalamCharlotte, NC - Email me on Indeed: indeed.com/r/Subramanian-Venkatachalam/0c1239fc56d489e6• Seasoned IT professional with comprehensive retail business/technical skill set and expertise in Retail applications.• Motivated achiever who provides added value, shares knowledge across teams and creates project deliverables in a timely manner.• Proficient problem-solver who envisions business and technical perspectives to develop workable solutions. • 5+ years of experience in Retail/POS systems. Has design experience on POS, RTV, Inventory and other RF functionalities.• Has years of retail sales, payments, back office related software upgrade projects.• Excellent communication and negotiation skills. Involved in direct vendor communication and coordination.WORK EXPERIENCESoftware EngineerSyntel Ltd - March 2010 to PresentKey Responsibilities• POS, RF SME• Understanding the requirement, involving required vendors and teams. • Providing better solution on Retail software upgrades projects.• Schedule necessary meetings with vendors and other application team • Complete the assigned project with proper end-to-end documentation. • Warranty support on completed projects.• Transition to support team with proper documents.Maintenance and Production SupportSyntel Ltd - March 2010 to Present Retail Billing (USA) Mar 2010-Till dateClient: BelkTechnologies: COBOL, JCL, DB2, VSAM, Rexx, Dyl, Platinum for DB2. Role:Maintenance and Production Support• Application related business enhancement in Retail systems - Point of Sales(Pos system), Return to Vendor(Rtv), Merchandise Transfer System(Mts), Inventory scanning(Isc), Return Database(Rdb).• Scheduling meeting with vendors and application team to complete project on time.Roles and Responsibilities involved• Involved in Client's payment gateway project in enhancing customers data security.• Involved in Pin pad upgrade to enable to Point to point encryption with customer's critical card data. • Experienced in Mobile POS functionality focusing on Omni-central retail experience.• Responsible for co-ordination with vendors to complete project on time.• Involved in analysis and modification POS functionalities.• Preparation of sales report in specified format by extracting the sales data. 
• Involved business maintenance and providing end to end documents.• Co-ordination with network team, server team, and Hardware team in resolving critical situation such as store server being down that directly impacts the sales.• Scheduling changes for specific events at a specified time and making changes in production environment to meet specific requirements of customers.• Has few years of experience in Retail technology support.Extra Assignments• Generated non taxable sales report for each store during tax free week ends/days.• Modified the inventory scanning system to take care of the missing items for scanning and shrink report.• Involved in Survey data project enhancing the Point of Sales system to generate survey data transaction details report for each quarter.• Worked with receiving team on Merchandise transfer system(MTS) and RTV to efficiently transfer goods from store to DC. Hence, proving better usage of inventory• Worked with purchasing to develop a more efficient inventory system.Certifications, Awards and Training• IBM DB2 Fundamentals Exam 730 External Certification.• Received Client Appreciation for showing good performance during inventory and holiday sales. • Received the STRETCH Award for extensive support and maintenance for the Store systems• Completed Mainframe training(Jcl, Cobol, Db2, Cics) at Texas technologies.EDUCATIONBachelor of Technology in TechnologySaranathan College of Engineering June 2009H.S.CAnna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2005ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Technical SkillsPlatform /Technology Retail/Mainframe Technology.Primary Skills: POS, store systems and back office functionalities. Also has knowledge on JCL, COBOL, DB2 Programming Languages: JCL, Cobol, C, C++, SQL.Database: DB2, VSAM.Other Tools Used QMF, SPUFI, Platinum, Basics on Rexx and DYl.